# S1. Let's Dive In!

## Critical Questions

### 1. So what’s React all about?

React

-   display HTML
-   changes that HTML when the user does something

: Even thought we are using React, at the end of the day, it is still HTML that is causing content to appear on the screen of the user’s brower. So we can kind of think of React as being like a wrapper around HTML of sort.

React Components

-   Functions that return JSX (stuff that looks like HTML)
-   Tells React what to show on the screen
-   A project can have many components that work together

JSX

-   Tell React to create a normal HTML element
-   Tell React to show another component

## A Few More Critical Questions

### 2. How does a React app start up?

-   All of your project’s JS files are ‘bundled’ together into a single file, then placed onto a server
-   User makes a request to the sever and gets an HTML file + the bundle
-   User’s browser executes your code

React Startup Process

-   Find the div with id of ‘root’ in the DOM
-   Tell React to take control of that element
-   Tell React to get JSX from the App component, turn it into HTML, and show it in the root

### 3. What were the ‘useState’ functions?

-   ‘useState’ is a function that works with React’s “state” system
-   State is like a variable in React
-   State is used to store data that changes over time
-   Whenever state changes, React automatically updates content on the screen

### 4. How did the text get translated to another language?

Text from input + Selected Language

⇒ Translate Component

⇒ Did the text or language change?

⇒ If so, make a network request with the new text/language

⇒ Google Translate API

---

[<PREV](./221230.md) || [NEXT>](./230101.md)
