# S.9 Deeper Dive into Hooks

## Return to useEffect

### Tricky Things Around UseEffect

-   Understanding when our arrow function gets called
-   Understanding the arrow function’s return value
-   Understanding stale variable reference

## Applying the Fix

### Stale Variable References

-   Possible bug anytime your useEffect contains a function that refers to a variable
-   Extremely common bug
-   Create-React-App includes an ESLint rule to help you find this
-   Following the ESLint rule can lead to more bugs

## ESLInt is Good, but be Careful

: In JavaScript, functions are treated like values in the same way that a string or a number or an object or an array is a value.

: ESLint is not bad. We want to follow what it does. We just need to be really aware. Usually best to do what ESLint says, but make sure it doesn’t break something else.

## Stable References with useCallback

### useCallback

-   Hook to help you tell React that your function isn’t actually changing over time
-   Fixes bugs around useEffect and other similar situations
-   Follows similar conventions as useEffect (second argument is an array)
-   Behavior is different after first render
-   If second argument is an empty array, useCallback gives you back the original you function from first render
-   If second argument has elements that have changed since last render, useCallback gives you the new version of your function

## Fixing Bugs with useCallback

```jsx
// books.js

const fetchBooks = useCallback(async () => {
	const response = await axios.get("http://localhost:3001/books");

	setBooks(response.data);
}, []);
```

```jsx
// App.js

const { fetchBooks } = useContext(BooksContext);

useEffect(() => {
	fetchBooks();
}, [fetchBooks]);
```

## useEffect Cleanup Functions

: `useEffect` can return a function. (NOT numers or strings or async/await … ect)

## The Purpose of Cleanup Functions

: We’re going to use cleanup inside of a useEffect any time that we need to do some work of kind of undo something before our next useEffect runs. It’s extremely common to do this whenever we are watching for events, manually uncertain elements that are being rendered inside that DOM that we can’t otherwise listen to with nomal click event listener.

```jsx
import { useEffect, useState } from "react";

function App() {
	const [counter, setCounter] = useState(0);

	useEffect(() => {
		//Don't do this
		// document.body.onclick = () => {
		//   console.log(counter);
		// };

		const listener = () => {
			console.log(counter);
		};
		document.body.addEventListener("click", listener);

		return () => {
			document.body.removeEventListener("click", listener);
		};
	}, [counter]);

	return (
		<div>
			<button onClick={() => setCounter(counter + 1)}>+ Increment</button>
			<div>Count: {counter}</div>
		</div>
	);
}

export default App;
```

---

[<PREV](./230204.md) || [NEXT>](./230205.md)
